With that we added taps and yes on favorites.
We're not doing anything yet.
That's something that we'll follow.
But we have taps at least before we work on the favorites.
Let's work on the taps a bit more because right now we have taps on Android that don't really look like
we would expect Android taps to look like this looks more like IAW taps if you ask me.
Sure it works and you can keep dead of deaths the style you want.
Nothing wrong with that but it would be nice for two of them were Android specific look maybe and for
Dad we have a separate navigator we can create though we have to install the extra package for this
first of all so let's do that.
Let me quick to equate that server here and run npm install dash dash save.
And now that's react dash navigation dash material dash bottom dash taps.
By the way they're all is react navigation material top taps I'll not dive into that in discourse here
but attached you all to find a link where you can learn more about that alternative Navigator will use
the material bottom taps navigator here and install this package does is how we started.
So let's wait for that installation to finish and thereafter let's install one other package which will
also need with NPM installed dash dash save and that's react dash native dash paper let's install this
as well.
And Wednesday's installation is finished.
Let's restart the exposed server with NPM.
Start again because now we installed packages that help us render an alternative.
Tab navigator and it's thankfully really straightforward to use and has pretty much the same or very
similar configuration options than the bottom tab navigator especially when it comes to how we set up
icons and so on attached you find all the docs for this alternative navigator and for dead yet another
alternative navigator.
I mentioned and let's use it by importing from this newly installed installed react navigation material
bottom taps navigator package here and from there we can import to create material bottom tap navigator.
Function here.
Now make sure you all have platform imports because we'll now need this because I only want to use this
navigator instead of to create bottom tab navigator.
If we're on Android so here we can check whether platform OS is equal to Android.
And in that case I want to use that new create material bottom tab Navigator a function which I just
imported.
Otherwise after the colon we'll use the bottom tab navigator we set up in the previous lecture.
So that of course leaves us with one question How does D material bottom tap navigator work how do we
configured it.
And the good news here is generally it works the same as the bottom tab navigator.
There are some details you can configure on the tab navigator itself.
So for example which color to assume when and so on that differs.
But regarding how you set up your tabs and match screens and set up icons that's exactly the same.
And therefore we can actually take this entire screen config here cut it from here and store this in
a separate constant here which I'll name tab screen can't think you can name it whatever you want because
that can be reused.
And now I use to tap screen config as a first argument both in the bottom tab Navigator as well as indeed
material bottom tab navigator just like this and that only leaves us with an alternative second argument
which we pass to material bottom tab navigator and just bottom tab navigator.
This second argument we passed this object we pass as a second argument as LURD allows us to configure
the tab navigator itself for example set up tap our options like the active tint color.
And that difference a bit because for the material bottom tab navigator we don't set up tab bar options
to configure our active tint color.
Instead we directly have an active 10 color here in this object itself on the bottom tab navigator.
We had this in a nested object in the tap our options.
We don't have that here.
Instead here we just set active 10 color like that two colors acts and color and there are other settings
as well for example you can set shifting to true and I'll show what this doesn't what false starts in
a second.
And with that that's it for now if we now safety's this will rebuild our project and reloaded on the
screen and we have the same tabs as before on.
I was.
That didn't change.
But on Android we now have that more material.
Look tab navigator here where we can now also switch like this.
And that's this shifting effect which you see here that the tabs grow that the label only exists on
the tab which is active.
And if you said shifting to false here by the way you simply don't have does effect then you always
have your labels there on Android as well.
So deaths now are a look that looks a bit more like Android.
I would say and stay for the look which I want to have here and you can take this even further.
Let's say we want to change the entire Tap Bar.
Background color here.
Depending on which tab is selected and have a nice ripple effect that changes this along the way.
For this we can go to our screen conflict and there to the navigation options and there we have to tap
our icon.
We can also set up a tap bar color here when this tab is selected.
So to say for example set the two colors primary color and now important this only has an effect.
If you do set shifting to true otherwise just tap out a color prop which I'm setting up here will have
no effect because only the shifting effect supports this which will now have the effect will now have
is that if I save this get the same look on ISIS because they're tap our color has no effect.
But now you see we really have our Primary Colors a background of meals are selected.
If we select favorites that changes to the average color.
Now this change of course doesn't look that beautiful and therefore we can simply change that by also
giving our favorites screen its own tap our color.
So there we could say in the navigation options of the favorites screen next to tap or I can we set
the tap or color dear to accent color what will now have is a differently colored Tap Bar which switches
from our primary color for meals here to does X and color for favorites with this nice ripple effect.
And of course down to is that we don't see the icon then because accent color for a tap or color is
not a good choice.
If our 10 color is all the x and color.
So if we use does effect we might want to use white here as a thin color which we can always see against
both the primary and the X and color and therefore here for the act of tint color we might want to use
white instead of our accent color because white will work for both taps then no matter if the tap passed
and colored and the primary color that dark purple or in the accent color that orange Therefore now
you see we have this effect here.
And this nice ripple change to the average tap here for favorites and I think that's a pretty sweet
and easy to implement change that makes this look great on Android and certainly gives us a more distinctive
android like look whilst keeping the default IOW look you would expect on that platform it's really
easy to implement as you can tell.
Now a quick side note if you don't want to use this shifting effect which I want to use here.
But if you wouldn't want to use it then of course you might notice that the background color of your
taps on Android is not your primary color but instead it is a bit lighter purple purple bluish color.
Now typically you might want to change this too of course.
And as you see Tap Bar color simply has no effect.
This only works with shifting.
Now if you want to change your background color for the entire Tap Bar in the non shifting case then
all you have to do is here on the configuration of your tap navigator itself because it affects the
entire Tap Bar.
Now you can set up a bar style property and that simply is a style object where you can for example
set the background color to colors primary like this and does simply changes the background color off
the navigation bar for our Android bottom bar here.
So that's how you can change this if you don't want to use the shifting pattern here.
Shifting look.
I will turn on shifting again.
That will set this to true again because I really like this different colored Tap Bar I think that's
a really nice look with that ripple effect that changes the color and that's how easy it is to implement
different tap bars.
Now again there are a bunch of configuration options both for the Tap Bar itself as well for it navigation
options off the screens you have inside of your tap bar and therefore you find you official docks attached
where you can dive into every single option and explore them and play around with them.